Protecting sensitive or secret information has always been an important issue. With the increased popularity and usability of smartphones, tasks such as communicating with clients and friends, are being completed through applications over mobile internet connections. In this project the various cryptographic schemes used by popular applications available to Android based smartphones for secure data communication will be researched. Accompanying this will be a study of other cryptographic schemes. These techniques will be implemented through a data transmission application. Tests will be carried out to analyse various important factors that need to be considered for a successful encrypted data transmission application. An original conclusion will then be drawn as to whether the current techniques of cryptography available are appropriate or if a new scheme should be encouraged. The results of the described implementation and analysis were that the currently used cryptographic techniques are appropriate for the current state of smartphone usage and capabilities. These techniques, however, should be combined to create a new application. A different technique exists that can easily be used in the event that the requirements of the current cryptographic schemes surpass the available resources of current smartphones.


Protecting sensitive or secret information has always been an important issue. With the increased popularity and usability of smartphones, tasks such as communicating with clients and friends, are being completed through applications over mobile internet connections. This project starts with an implementation of researched cryptographic schemes in a smartphone based data transmission application setting, accompanied with tests to analyse various important factors that need to be considered for a successful application. An original conclusion will then be drawn as to whether the current techniques of cryptography available are appropriate or if a new scheme should be encouraged. The results found were that the currently used cryptographic techniques are appropriate for the current state of smartphone usage and capabilities. These techniques, however, should be combined to create a new application, with possible improvements available in the event that the requirements of the current cryptographic schemes surpass the available resources of current smartphones.

